# Single Threaded Synchronous Execution

Single threaded execution means only one command is executed at a time. While JS is running in a single threaded manner, under the hood of the browser it may be being executed in a multi threaded environment. Similarly synchronous means one line of code is executed at a time in the order that it appears. 

## Function invocation

A function is invoked using parentheses '()'. If we have the following code:

<pre>
<code>
                function b() {
                    console.log('Hello');
                }

                function a() {
                    b();
                }

                a();
</code>
</pre>

The first thing we know that will happen is the engine will create a Global Execution Context. The parser will parse the code and then the interpreter will create this context, along with the Global Object, 'this', and an Outer Environment, it will then set up our variables and functions in memory, attaching them to our Global Object.

The code will then be executed line by line, it will not execute the functions at first as they have not been invoked. When it hits a() at the bottom however, a() will be invoked. This in turn will invoke b(), which will log out 'Hello'.

Under the hood, when a() is invoked, a new Execution Context is created and placed on the Execution Stack, this stack is a stack (one on top of the other) of Execution Contexts, whichever Context is on top is the one which is currently running. This Execution Context will have it's own space for variables and functions (going through the create and execution phase) and continue to parse and execute our code. 

However, if the parser comes accross another invocation, it will stop at that line of code, create another execution context, and run that code (in this example this occurs at our invocation of b() within a()) this will be placed atop of the stack.

When b() finishes executing, it will be popped off the top of the stack, then a() will finish and be popped off the top of the stack back down to our Global Execution Context.

If e have the following:

<pre>
<code>
    function a() {
        b();
        var c;
    }

    function b() {
        var d;
    }

    a();
    var d;
</code>
</pre>

When we run our code the interpreter hits a(). a() is then invoked, which creates a new Execution Context, this means a() becomes the currently running context, d will not be run yet because JS in synchronous. when a() is run the interpreter hits b() which then creates another Execution Context and places it atop the Execution Stack. b() is invoked creating it's variable, only when b() finishes is it popped off the top of the stack and we go back to finishing a()'s execution. a() will then run the next line of code which has not yet been run (var c). Once a() completes, it is popped off of the stack and be return to our Global Context in which the final line (var d) is executed. 

It is important to note that this always occurs, even when a function invokes itself, or a callback, a new Execution Context is created.

[<< prev](../README.md) | [next >>](2.md)