# Asynchronous Callbacks

Asynchronous code simply means we execute multiple instructions (more than one) at a time. As we have said JS is synchronous, so how do we use Asynchronous tasks in JS? we know the engine can run multiple thigns, think of onClick events, user interactions etc... so how does JS handle these aysynchronous events?

First we need to consider the JS engine. When we talk about the JS engine we first need to understand that the engine itself does not exist in a void. It does not exist by itself within the Browser, there are other engines and elements running at the same time within the browser such as the rendering engine, HTTP Requests.

We have already covered the execution stack, similarly however, there is another list that exists within the framing of the JS engine called the Event Queue. This list contains notifications of events that are occurring, when the browser, outside the JS engine, has an event that we want to be notified of within the JS engine it gets placed on this queue. If we want a function to run in response to this we can listen for that event and delegate our function to handle that event. 

Now, imagine that we have someone click on a button, we have a function that responds to this click event, but what if another event happens whilst this code is processing? for instance, if we receive a HTTP Request, or a response containing data we requested?

In this circumstance the event queue is looked at periodically by JS when the execution stack is empty. JS will wait for something to be in the queue and if something is there JS will check if something is to be run when that event is triggered. If there is a function, it invokes that function creating a new execution context, that event is processed, and the next item in the queue moves up, but remember, the items in the queue will not be processed until the execution stack is empty. 

In other words, it isn't really asynchronous, what is happening is the Browser is asynchronous placing items in the event queue, but the code itself is still running synchronously. 

<pre>
<code>
    function waitThreeSeconds() {
        var ms = 3000 + new Date().getTime();
        while (new Date() < ms){}
        console.log('finished function');
    }

    function clickHandler() {
        console.log('click event!');   
    }

    document.addEventListener('click', clickHandler);


    waitThreeSeconds();
    console.log('finished execution');
</code>
</pre>

In the case above, we simulate an action which takes a long time in a while loop. We log out when this function finishes execution, next we have a clickHandler which will log tot he console on the triggering of a click event. This event will be placed in the event queue and will not be executed until after the execution stack has been emptied. If you activate the click event while the 3 second wait is running the event will be logged only after 'finished execution' has been logged, because the JS engine wont even look at the event queue until the execution stack is empty, therefore we have to wait for our execution to complete down to the end of the global context until our events are processed. This means that long running functions can interrupt events being handled. 

[<< prev](4.md) | [next >>](6.md)