# Objects and Functions

While Objects and Functions may seem like conceptually very different things (especially coming from other languages), while in other languages these are two distinct concepts, in JS they are very closely related.

As we already know, objects in JS are collections of name => value pairs. Those values can then be other collections of name => value pairs.

But how does an Object live in memory? an Object is a collection of values and names, but what exactly are these? An object can have properties and methods, for instance if we have a primitive on our object, this would be a property. An Object may also have a child Object which would also be considered a property. An Object may also contain Functions, this would be considered a method. 

These properties and methods all sit in memory, the core Object will have some kind of core Object stored in memory, this will also hold references to the addresses of these properties and methods which are also sitting in memory.

If we create an object with the property firstname:

<pre>
<code>
    var person = new Object();

    person["firstname"] = "Martin";
</code>
</pre>

Note: The brackets used to define the property are called the computed member access operator. 

When this code executes a person object is created and written into memory (lets say at addres 0x001) the property will also be stored in memory (0x002), and the Object will be handed a reference to the property. The computed member access property is near the top of order in terms of operator precedence. This operator may also be accessed with variable values.

<pre>
<code>
    var person = new Object();

    person["firstname"] = "Martin";
    person["lastname"] = "Charlin";

    let firstNameProperty = "firstname";
    
    console.log(person);
    console.log(person[firstNameProperty]);

    console.log(person.firstname);
    console.log(person.lastname);

    person.address = new Object();
    person.address.street = "24 Marks St.";

</code>
</pre>

Even higher in the operator precedence order is the member access operator, otherwise known as dot notation.
The associativity of these notations are left-to-right, this is called having a left associativity. 

In this example this means that the Object on the left is called first (person). This means the engine looks at the person object, and looks for a property of address, once it finds that in memory it calls the next dor operator and looks for the street property called street. Since it does not find the value it evaluates the assignment operator, creating a new property with the value to the right of the assignment operator. This could go on and on, an Object can contain other Objects, which can contain other properties, methods, and Objects. All of these will have references from the parent object to their own positions in memory. 

Recognise that the objects themselves, their properties, and methods are all just sitting in memory. The operators are just functions we can use to manipulate and access the information associated wiht them.
We can even run operators one after the other:

<pre>
<code>
    console.log(person["address"]["state"]);
</code>
</pre>

In this circumstance the leftmost operator is evaluated first, this looks for an address property on the Person Object. When this is found the property is found to be an Object itself, the state property is then evaluated to find the state property on the address object stored in memory. This allows us to access the address Objects state value from our Person object containing the corresponding address Object. 

Below illustrates how these obect relate and gives an idea of what exactly we are accessing via the above operators.

<pre>
<code>
    {firstname: "Martin", lastname: "Jameson", address: {…}}
        address: {street: "24 Mark St.", city: "New York", state: "NY"}
        firstname: "Tony"
        lastname: "Alicea"
        __proto__: Object
</code>
</pre>

To review, Objects are name value paris sitting in memory, they can contain references to other Objects (name value pairs), and references to other types of properties and methods.

[<< prev](5.md) | [next >>](7.md)