# Objects and Object Literals

Object literals in JS are a shorthand syntax for defining objects. These are also the preferred way for declaring objects, rather than the method used in the previous chapter. 

<pre>
<code>
    // Object
    let person = new Object();

    // Object Literal
    let person = {}
</code>
</pre>

Object Literals allow us to declare properties and methods wihtin our objects by initialising them wihtin the declaration of the Object. These initialisations are conducted as, you guessed it, name value pairs (remember Objects are collections of name value pairs). We can even declare other objects within our objects in the same manner. 

<pre>
<code>
    let person = {
        firstname: "Carlos",
        lastname: "Rodriguez",
        address: {
            street: "25 Marks Lane",
            city: "Manchester", 
            county: "CH",
        }
    }
</code>
</pre>

If we log out our Object we can see that we have a Person Object which contains references to the declared properties. 
Remember, these are referenced memory locations at the low level. 

<pre>
<code>
    {firstname: "Carlos", lastname: "Rodriguez", address: {…}}
    address:
        city: "Manchester"
        county: "CH"
        street: "25 Marks Lane"
    __proto__: Object
    firstname: "Carlos"
    lastname: "Rodriguez"
</code>
</pre>

The other benefit to this syntax is we can create Objects on the fly for passing to other functions etc...

<pre>
<code>
    greet({ 
        firstname: 'Carl', 
        lastname: 'Benjamin'
    });
</code>
</pre>

Notice that both of the syntaxes discussed in this and the previous chapter, function in exactly the same manner. Behind the scenes JS takes exactly the same steps, the difference is preference for the syntax, which is more readable, and which can provide sufficient information or 'cleanliness' to understand what the code does without having to comment every line. 

[<< prev](6.md) | [next >>](8.md)